Captioning sponsored by
MacNEIL/LEHRER PRODUCTIONS
>> Ifill: IT'S THE MOST SWEEPING
CHANGE IN A GENERATION IN HOW
THE SENATE DOES YOUR BUSINESS,
AS THE DEMOCRATIC MAJORITY VOTET
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATIONS.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD, AFGHAN PRESIDENT
HAMID KARZAI COMPLICATED A KEY
SECURITY AGREEMENT WITH THE
U.S., TELLING TRIBAL LEADERS IT
SHOULD NOT BE FINALIZED UNTIL
NEXT YEAR.
>> Ifill: PLUS, SOME FAMILIAR
FACES LOOK BACK AT THE
ASSASSINATION OF PRESIDENT JOHN
F. KENNEDY.
>> THE AIR WAS FILLED WITH THE
MOST INCREDIBLE SCREAMING.
IT WAS LIKE CHOIRS ALL SINGING
OUT OF TUNE.
>> Woodruff: ROBERT MACNEIL AND
JIM LEHRER WERE BOTH THERE 50
YEARS AGO, COVERING THAT FATEFUL
DAY IN DALLAS.
>> WHAT THE KENNEDY
ASSASSINATION DID FOR ME WAS
FOREVER TO KEEP ME AWARE OF THE
FRAGILITY OF EVERYTHING.
THREE ROUNDS FIRED IN 15 SECONDS
CHANGED THE COURSE OF HISTORY.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE ST SJUOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: THE SENATE'S LONG-
THANK YOU.
FESTERING FIGHT OVER FILIBUSTERS
>> Ifill: THE SENATE'S LONG-
CAME TO A HEAD TODAY.
FESTERING FIGHT OVER FILIBUSTERS
MAJORITY DEMOCRATS PUSHED
CAME TO A HEAD TODAY.
THROUGH A RULES CHANGE MAKING IT
MAJORITY DEMOCRATS PUSHED
EASIER TO FORCE ACTION ON
THROUGH A RULES CHANGE MAKING IT
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEES.
EASIER TO FORCE ACTION ON
BEFORE, IT TOOK 60 VOTES; NOW,
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEES.
IT WILL TAKE 51.
BEFORE, IT TOOK 60 VOTES; NOW,
DEMOCRATS SAID IT WILL END
IT WILL TAKE 51.
GRIDLOCK, REPUBLICANS SAY IT'S
DEMOCRATS SAID IT WILL END
AN ABUSE OF POWER.
GRIDLOCK, REPUBLICANS SAY IT'S
WE WI HEALLR SOME OF THE DEBATE
AN ABUSE OF POWER.
AND TALK TO TWO SENATORS RIGHT
WE WI HEALLR SOME OF THE DEBATE
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
AND TALK TO TWO SENATORS RIGHT
WALL STREET RALLIED PAST A NEW
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
MILESTONE TODAY ON SIGNS OF
WALL STREET RALLIED PAST A NEW
IMPROVEMENT IN THE JOB MARKET.
MILESTONE TODAY ON SIGNS OF
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
IMPROVEMENT IN THE JOB MARKET.
ADDED 109 POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
16,000 FOR THE FIRST TIME.
ADDED 109 POINTS TO CLOSE ABOVE
THE NASDAQ ROSE NEARLY 48 POINTS
16,000 FOR THE FIRST TIME.
TO CLOSE AT 3.969.
THE NASDAQ ROSE NEARLY 48 POINTS
AFGHAN PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI
TO CLOSE AT 3.969.
URGED TRIBAL ELDERS TODAY TO
AFGHAN PRESIDENT HAMID KARZAI
SUPPORT A SECURITY DEAL WITH THE
URGED TRIBAL ELDERS TODAY TO
U.S.
SUPPORT A SECURITY DEAL WITH THE
IT WOULD KEEP THOUSANDS OF
U.S.
AMERICAN TROOPS IN AFGHANISTAN
IT WOULD KEEP THOUSANDS OF
FOR ANOTHER DECADE.
AMERICAN TROOPS IN AFGHANISTAN
BUT KARZAI SAID HE WILL LEAVE
FOR ANOTHER DECADE.
THE SIGNING OF THE AGREEMENT TO
BUT KARZAI SAID HE WILL LEAVE
HIS SUCCESSOR NEXT YEAR.
THE SIGNING OF THE AGREEMENT TO
THE U.S. SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE
HIS SUCCESSOR NEXT YEAR.
ON AFGHANISTAN WILL JOIN US
THE U.S. SPECIAL REPRESENTATIVE
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
ON AFGHANISTAN WILL JOIN US
AN APPARENT U.S. DRONE STRIKE IN
LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
PAKISTAN HAS KILLED ANOTHER
AN APPARENT U.S. DRONE STRIKE IN
SENIOR FIGURE OF THE HAQQANI
PAKISTAN HAS KILLED ANOTHER
NETWORK.
SENIOR FIGURE OF THE HAQQANI
POLICE SAID HE WAS ONE OF THREE
NETWORK.
TOP MILITANTS WHO DIED WHEN
POLICE SAID HE WAS ONE OF THREE
MISSILES BLASTED AN ISLAMIC
TOP MILITANTS WHO DIED WHEN
SEMINARY.
MISSILES BLASTED AN ISLAMIC
THERE'S BEEN A SERIES OF RECENT
SEMINARY.
ATTACKS ON HAQQANI LEADERS.
THERE'S BEEN A SERIES OF RECENT
THE AFGHAN GROUP IS ALLIED WITH
ATTACKS ON HAQQANI LEADERS.
THE TALIBAN.
THE AFGHAN GROUP IS ALLIED WITH
THE GENEVA TALKS ON CURBING
THE TALIBAN.
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM MADE
THE GENEVA TALKS ON CURBING
LITTLE HEADWAY TODAY.
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM MADE
THE U.S. AND FIVE OTHER POWERS
LITTLE HEADWAY TODAY.
ARE TRYING TO REACH A DRAFT
THE U.S. AND FIVE OTHER POWERS
AGREEMENT WITH IRAN TO EASE SOME
ARE TRYING TO REACH A DRAFT
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS IF TEHRAN
AGREEMENT WITH IRAN TO EASE SOME
FREEZES ITS NUCLEAR EFFORTS.
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS IF TEHRAN
BUT IRAN'S DEPUTY FOREIGN
FREEZES ITS NUCLEAR EFFORTS.
MINISTER SAID THIS MORNING
BUT IRAN'S DEPUTY FOREIGN
THERE'D BEEN A LOSS OF
MINISTER SAID THIS MORNING
CONFIDENCE SINCE THE LAST ROUND,
THERE'D BEEN A LOSS OF
EARLIER THIS MONTH.
CONFIDENCE SINCE THE LAST ROUND,
>> I'M NOT IN A POSITION TO GO
EARLIER THIS MONTH.
INTO THE DETAILINGS OF THAT BUT
>> I'M NOT IN A POSITION TO GO
THEY HAVE SOME DIFFERENCES AND
INTO THE DETAILINGS OF THAT BUT
THOSE DIFFERENCES ARE ON ISSUES
THEY HAVE SOME DIFFERENCES AND
STILL THERE.
THOSE DIFFERENCES ARE ON ISSUES
>> Reporter: INCLUDING
STILL THERE.
SANCTIONS?
>> Reporter: INCLUDING
>> ON S
SANCTIONS?
>> Ifill: LATER, THE IRANIAN
>> ON S
OFFICIAL MET WITH THE EUROPEAN
>> Ifill: LATER, THE IRANIAN
UNION'S TOP DIPLOMAT AND EMERGED
OFFICIAL MET WITH THE EUROPEAN
SAYING, "WE REGAINED SOME OF OUR
UNION'S TOP DIPLOMAT AND EMERGED
LOST TRUST."
SAYING, "WE REGAINED SOME OF OUR
WE'LL TALK TO MARGARET WARNER,
LOST TRUST."
IN GENEVA, LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
WE'LL TALK TO MARGARET WARNER,
THIS WAS ANOTHER BLOODY DAY IN
IN GENEVA, LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
IRAQ, WHERE A SERIES OF BOMBINGS
THIS WAS ANOTHER BLOODY DAY IN
KILLED NEARLY 50 PEOPLE.
IRAQ, WHERE A SERIES OF BOMBINGS
MORE THAN HALF THE VICTIMS DIED
KILLED NEARLY 50 PEOPLE.
IN A TRUCK BOMBING AT AN OUTDOOR
MORE THAN HALF THE VICTIMS DIED
MARKET 90 MILES NORTHEAST OF
IN A TRUCK BOMBING AT AN OUTDOOR
BAGHDAD.
MARKET 90 MILES NORTHEAST OF
MORE THAN 5,500 IRAQIS HAVE BEEN
BAGHDAD.
KILLED SINCE THE WAVE OF
MORE THAN 5,500 IRAQIS HAVE BEEN
VIOLENCE BEGAN EIGHT MONTHS AGO.
KILLED SINCE THE WAVE OF
A NEW FLOOD OF SYRIAN REFUGEES
VIOLENCE BEGAN EIGHT MONTHS AGO.
IS SURGING ACROSS THE BORDER
A NEW FLOOD OF SYRIAN REFUGEES
INTO LEBANON.
IS SURGING ACROSS THE BORDER
IT STARTED FRIDAY, WHEN SYRIAN
INTO LEBANON.
TROOPS LAUNCHED AN OFFENSIVE IN
IT STARTED FRIDAY, WHEN SYRIAN
A MOUNTAINOUS REGION NORTH OF
TROOPS LAUNCHED AN OFFENSIVE IN
DAMASCUS.
A MOUNTAINOUS REGION NORTH OF
A U.N. OFFICIAL SAYS MORE THAN
DAMASCUS.
13,000 PEOPLE HAVE FLED TO
A U.N. OFFICIAL SAYS MORE THAN
LEBANON SINCE THEN, INCLUDING
13,000 PEOPLE HAVE FLED TO
500 FAMILIES LAST NIGHT ALONE.
LEBANON SINCE THEN, INCLUDING
AID AGENCIES ARE SCRAMBLING TO
500 FAMILIES LAST NIGHT ALONE.
FIND SHELTER FOR THEM.
AID AGENCIES ARE SCRAMBLING TO
THERE'S WORD THAT AN 85-YEAR-OLD
FIND SHELTER FOR THEM.
AMERICAN IS BEING HELD IN NORTH
THERE'S WORD THAT AN 85-YEAR-OLD
KOREA.
AMERICAN IS BEING HELD IN NORTH
ACCORDING TO HIS SON, MERRILL
KOREA.
NEWMAN VISITED PYONGYANG AS A
ACCORDING TO HIS SON, MERRILL
TOURIST LAST MONTH.
NEWMAN VISITED PYONGYANG AS A
THE KOREAN WAR VETERAN WAS TAKEN
TOURIST LAST MONTH.
FROM HIS PLANE BY A UNIFORMED
THE KOREAN WAR VETERAN WAS TAKEN
OFFICER JUST BEFORE HIS FLIGHT
FROM HIS PLANE BY A UNIFORMED
HOME.
OFFICER JUST BEFORE HIS FLIGHT
THE U.S. SPECIAL ENVOY FOR NORTH
HOME.
KOREA WAS ASKED ABOUT THE
THE U.S. SPECIAL ENVOY FOR NORTH
INCIDENT, IN CHINA TODAY.
KOREA WAS ASKED ABOUT THE
>> WELL, WE'VE SEEN THOSE
INCIDENT, IN CHINA TODAY.
REPORTS.
>> WELL, WE'VE SEEN THOSE
I HAVE TO SAY AT THE OUTSET WHAT
REPORTS.
I CAN'T DO IS COMMENT IN ANY
I HAVE TO SAY AT THE OUTSET WHAT
SPECIFICITY ABOUT THEM BECAUSE
I CAN'T DO IS COMMENT IN ANY
WE DO NOT HAVE A PRIVACY ACT
SPECIFICITY ABOUT THEM BECAUSE
WAIVER AND WE, OF COURSE, ARE
WE DO NOT HAVE A PRIVACY ACT
CALLING ON NORTH KOREA AS IN THE
WAIVER AND WE, OF COURSE, ARE
CASE OF MR. KENNETH BARRY WHO
CALLING ON NORTH KOREA AS IN THE
HAS NOW BEEN THERE FOR OVER A
CASE OF MR. KENNETH BARRY WHO
YEAR, TO RESOLVE THE ISSUE AND
HAS NOW BEEN THERE FOR OVER A
TO ALLOW OUR CITIZENS TO GO
YEAR, TO RESOLVE THE ISSUE AND
FREE.
TO ALLOW OUR CITIZENS TO GO
>> Ifill: BAE  A CISHRISTIAN
FREE.
MISSIONARY.
>> Ifill: BAE  A CISHRISTIAN
HE WAS SENTENCED TO 15 YEARS OF
MISSIONARY.
HARD LABOR FOR WHAT NORTH KOREA
HE WAS SENTENCED TO 15 YEARS OF
CALLED "HOSTILE ACTS."
HARD LABOR FOR WHAT NORTH KOREA
THE STATE OF ALABAMA GRANTED
CALLED "HOSTILE ACTS."
POSTHUMOUS PARDONS TODAY TO
THE STATE OF ALABAMA GRANTED
THREE OF THE SO-CALLED
POSTHUMOUS PARDONS TODAY TO
"SCOTTSBORO BOYS."
THREE OF THE SO-CALLED
CHARLES WEEMS, ANDY WRIGHT AND
"SCOTTSBORO BOYS."
HAYWOOD PATTERSON WERE AMONG
CHARLES WEEMS, ANDY WRIGHT AND
NINE BLACK TEENAGERS FALSELY
HAYWOOD PATTERSON WERE AMONG
CONVICTED OF GANG-RAPING TWO
NINE BLACK TEENAGERS FALSELY
WHITE WOMEN IN 1931.
CONVICTED OF GANG-RAPING TWO
ALL SERVED TIME.
WHITE WOMEN IN 1931.
ONE MAN WAS PARDONED EARLIER,
ALL SERVED TIME.
AND CONVICTIONS AGAINST FIVE
ONE MAN WAS PARDONED EARLIER,
OTHERS WERE OVERTURNED.
AND CONVICTIONS AGAINST FIVE
A FEDERAL JURY IN CALIFORNIA HAS
OTHERS WERE OVERTURNED.
ORDERED SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS TO
A FEDERAL JURY IN CALIFORNIA HAS
PAY APPLE $290 MILLION FOR
ORDERED SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS TO
COPYING iPHONE AND iPAD
PAY APPLE $290 MILLION FOR
FEATURES.
COPYING iPHONE AND iPAD
A PREVIOUS JURY HAD AWARDED
FEATURES.
APPLE $1 BILLION, BUT THE JUDGE
A PREVIOUS JURY HAD AWARDED
RULED THE PANEL MISCALCULATED,
APPLE $1 BILLION, BUT THE JUDGE
AND SHE ORDERED A NEW TRIAL.
RULED THE PANEL MISCALCULATED,
SAMSUNG IS EXPECTED TO APPEAL
AND SHE ORDERED A NEW TRIAL.
THIS LATEST VERDICT.
SAMSUNG IS EXPECTED TO APPEAL
FEDERAL REGULATORS ARE READY TO
THIS LATEST VERDICT.
ALLOW CELLULAR CALLS DURING U.S.
FEDERAL REGULATORS ARE READY TO
FLIGHTS.
ALLOW CELLULAR CALLS DURING U.S.
THE FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS
FLIGHTS.
COMMISSION PROPOSED TODAY TO LET
THE FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS
AIRLINE PASSENGERS MAKE CALLS
COMMISSION PROPOSED TODAY TO LET
AND SEND TEXT MESSAGES ABOVE
AIRLINE PASSENGERS MAKE CALLS
10,000 FEET.
AND SEND TEXT MESSAGES ABOVE
THE F.C.C. VOTES ON THE PROPOSAL
10,000 FEET.
NEXT MONTH.
THE F.C.C. VOTES ON THE PROPOSAL
HUNDREDS OF ACTIVISTS WALKED OUT
NEXT MONTH.
OF U.N. CLIMATE TALKS TODAY OVER
HUNDREDS OF ACTIVISTS WALKED OUT
LACK OF PROGRESS.
OF U.N. CLIMATE TALKS TODAY OVER
NEARLY 200 NATIONS ARE MEETING
LACK OF PROGRESS.
IN WARSAW, POLAND, TO LAY THE
NEARLY 200 NATIONS ARE MEETING
GROUNDWORK FOR A CLIMATE PACT IN
IN WARSAW, POLAND, TO LAY THE
2015.
GROUNDWORK FOR A CLIMATE PACT IN
THEY'VE BEEN STYMIED BY DISPUTES
2015.
OVER MAKING RICH COUNTRIES PAY
THEY'VE BEEN STYMIED BY DISPUTES
FOR LOSSES WHEN POOR NATIONS
OVER MAKING RICH COUNTRIES PAY
SUFFER.
FOR LOSSES WHEN POOR NATIONS
THE MEETING ENDS TOMORROW.
SUFFER.
STILL AHEAD ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE MEETING ENDS TOMORROW.
SWEEPING CHANGES IN THE SENATE;
STILL AHEAD ON THE NEWSHOUR:
THE U.S. POINT PERSON WITH
SWEEPING CHANGES IN THE SENATE;
AFGHANISTAN; MARGARET WARNER IN
THE U.S. POINT PERSON WITH
GENEVA ON THE IRAN NUCLEAR
AFGHANISTAN; MARGARET WARNER IN
TALKS; AND ROBERT MACNEIL AND
GENEVA ON THE IRAN NUCLEAR
JIM LEHRER REFLECT ON THE
TALKS; AND ROBERT MACNEIL AND
KENNEDY ASSASSINATION.
>> Ifill: TODAY'S LONG-
THREATENED SENATE SHAKEUP WILL
FORCE DRASTIC CHANGE ON HOW THE
CHAMBER DOES ITS BUSINESS AND
BREAK A GROWING LOGJAM OVER THE
CONFIRMATION OF THES
TODAY'S 52-48 VOTE OVERTURNED
DECADES OF SENATE PRECEDENT.
IT WAS OPPOSED BY ALL REPUBLICAN
SENATORS AND THREE DEMOCRATS.
THE PRESIDING SENATOR, VERMONT
DEMOCRAT PATRICK LEAHY, MADE IT
OFFICIAL.
>> SO, UNDER THE PRECEDENT SET
BY THE SENATE TODAY NOVEMBER
21, 2013, THE THRESHOLD FOR
CLOTURE ON NOMINATIONS-- NOT
INCLUDING THOSE TO THE SUPREME
COURT OF THE UNITED STATES-- IS
NOW A MAJORITY.
>> Ifill: SINCE 1975, IT'S TAKEN
60 VOTES TO OVERCOME FILIBUSTERS
AGAINST PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEES,
BUT TODAY MAJORITY LEADER HARRY
REID INVOKED THE SO-CALLED
"NUCLEAR OPTION," ALLOWING
CONFIRMATION WITH A SIMPLE
MAJORITY.
REPUBLICANS, HE SAID, HAVE
ABUSED THE PROCESS.
>> THE AMERICAN PEOPLE ARE FED
UP WITH THIS KIND OF OBSTRUCTION
AND GRIDLOCK.
IN THE HISTORY OF OUR COUNTRY,
SOME 230-PLUS YEARS, THERE HAVE
BEEN 168 FILIBUSTERS OF
EXECUTIVE AND JUDICIAL
NOMINATIONS.
HALF OF THEM HAVE OCCURRED
DURING THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION.
>> Ifill: REPUBLICANS DISPUTED
THE NUMBERS.
MINORITY LEADER MITCH McCONNELL
INSISTED THE SENATE HAS
CONFIRMED 215 OF PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S NOMINEES AND REJECTED
ONLY TWO.
>> THIS WAS NOTHING MORE THAN A
POWER GRAB IN ORDER TO TRY TO
ADVANCE THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION'S REGULATORY
AGENDA, AND THEY JUST BROKE THE
SENATE RULES IN ORDER TO
EXERCISE THE POWER GRAB.
SO, I WOULD SUM IT UP BY SAYING
IT'S A SAD DAY IN THE HISTORY OF
THE SENATE.
AFTER TODAY, ADVISE AND CONSENT
PROBABLY MEANS TO THEM 100%
CONSENT.
>> Ifill: DEMOCRATS HAVE
THREATENED TO CHANGE THE RULES
BEFORE, BUT MATTERS FINALLY CAME
TO A HEAD THIS WEEK WHEN
REPUBLICANS BLOCKED THREE
NOMINEES TO THE POWERFUL U.S.
CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS IN THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
THEY INCLUDE PATRICIA ANN
MILLETT, AN APPELLATE LAWYER IN
WASHINGTON; GEORGETOWN
UNIVERSITY LAW PROFESSOR
CORNELIA PILLARD; AND FEDERAL
DISTRICT COURT JUDGE ROBERT
WILKINS.
NT THE WHITE HOUSE, PRESIDE
OBAMA APPLAUDED THE VOTE.
HE SAID BOTH PARTIES HAVE
MISUSED FILIBUSTERS OVER THE
YEARS BUT THAT REPUBLICANS HAVE
BEEN ESPECIALLY "RECKLESS AND
RELENTLESS."
>> BUT TODAY'S PATTERN OF
OBSTRUCTION, IT JUST ISN'T
NORMAL.
IT'S NOT WHAT OUR FOUNDERS
ENVISIONED.
A DELIBERATE AND DETERMINED
EFFORT TO OBSTRUCT EVERYTHING NO
MATTER WHAT THE MERITS JUST TO
RE-FIGHT THE RESULTS OF THE
ELECTION IS NOT NORMAL, AND, FOR
THE SAKE OF FUTURE GENERATIONS,
WE CAN'T LET IT BECOME NORMAL.
>> Ifill: THE NEW, SIMPLE-
MAJORITY RULE APPLIES TO
NOMINEES FOR FEDERAL JUDGESHIPS
AND FEDERAL OFFICES.
IT WILL STILL TAKE 60 VOTES TO
DEFEAT FILIBUSTERS OF SUPREME
COURT NOMINEES AND LEGISLATION.
THE RULES CHANGE INFLAMED DEBATE
TODAY ON CAPITOL HILL.
I SPOKE A SHORT TIME AGO TO TWO
LAWMAKERS IN THE MIDDLE OF IT,
REPUBLICAN SENATOR RON JOHNSON
OF WISCONSIN AND DEMOCRATIC
SENATOR JEFF MERKELY OF OREGON.
SENATORS, WELCOME.
EXPLAIN HOW THIS CAME TO A HEAD
TODAY.
THIS IS A DISCUSSION WE'VE HAD
FOR A LONG TIME, THIS DISCUSSION
ABOUT FILIBUSTER REFORM.
STARTING WITH YOU, SENATOR
MERKLEY.
>> YOU BET.
THIS IS ALL ABOUT TO RESTORE THE
CONSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK OF THE
BALANCE BETWEEN THE BENCHES OF
GOVERNMENT.
THE SENATE IS SUPPOSED TO
SERVICE ADVICE AN CONSENT ON
NOMINATIONS BUT IT'S NOT
SUPPOSED TO BE ABLE TO
SYSTEMATICALLY UNDERMINE THE
EXECUTIVE BRANCH AND THE
JUDICIAL BRANCH AND WHAT BROUGHT
THIS TO A HEAD TODAY WAS A
DECISION BY THE MINORITY THAT
THEY WERE GOING TO BLOCK ANY
NOMINEE-- NO MATTER
QUALIFICATIONS, NO MATTER THEIR
HIGH CHARACTER-- IF THE
PRESIDENT -- IF THEY WERE
NOMINATED BY PRESIDENT OBAMA.
AND THAT TYPE OF APPROACH WAS
JUST COMPLETELY UNACCEPTABLE.
>> Ifill: SENATOR JOHNSON, ON
THE LOSING SIDE OF THIS TODAY,
IS THIS THAT THE WAY YOU SAW, IS
THAT THE WAY YOU SAW, ABOUT
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S NOMINEES?
>> NO, AGAIN GWEN, THAT IS VERY
SAD DAY FOR THE SENATE.
BASICALLY SENATOR HARRY REID AND
HIS COLLEAGUES ON THE DEMOCRAT
SIDE HAVE BASICALLY BROKEN THE
RULES OF THE SENATE TO CHANGE
THE RULES AND THIS WASN'T ABOUT
PRESIDENT OBAMA NO, MA'AM
GETTING HIS NOMINATIONS.
THE VAST MAJORITY-- WELL IN
EXCESS OF 95% TO 98% OF HIS
NOMINATIONS-- HAVE BEEN APPROVED
IN A PRETTY EXPEDITIOUS BASIS.
THIS IS JUST A BLATANT POWER
GRAB I GUESS TO PROBABLY CHANGE
THE SUBJECT OFF THE DISASTER IS
THE'M PLEPLT STATION OF THE
HEALTH CARE LAW BUT ALSO TO PACK
THE D.C. CIRCUIT COURT WHICH IS
GOING TO BE THE REGULATING COURT
OF -- BASICALLY THE DECIDING
COURT OF ALL THESE REGULATIONS
FOR OBAMACARE AND ALL THE
REGULATIONS THAT PRESIDENT OBAMA
IS GOING TO BE IMPLEMENTING
THROUGH HIS REGULATORY AGENCIES
BECAUSE HE CAN'T PASS THEM AS
LAWS.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK YOU AND
THEN SENATOR MERKLEY AS WELL THE
BASIC QUESTIONS FROM MANY PEOPLE
WATCHING THIS WHO DON'T KNOW
ABOUT NUCLEAR OPTIONS.
THEY WANT TO KNOW WHAT WAS THE
VIRTUE IN HAVING A 60-VOTE
THRESHOLD IN THE FIRST PLACE AND
WHAT IS THE DISDISADVANTAGE OF
GETTING RID OF IT.
>> FIRST OF ALL THE ADVANTAGE IS
ADVISE AND CONSENT.
6-WHAT CONSENT IS THERE IF YOU
HAVE TO AGREE TO EVERY NOMINEE
IS SINCE 2009 WE'VE APPROVED
MORE THAN 200 OF PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S JUDICIAL APPOINTMENTS
AND ONLY BLOCKED TWO SO THAT'S
AN INCREDIBLY HIGH RATE OF
APPROVAL SO AT SOME POINT IN
TIME THE MINORITY DOES HAVE TO
HAVE SOME RIGHTS IF THE ADVISE
AND CONSENT CLAUSE HAS ANY
MEANING WHAT IS OVER.
>> Ifill: SENATOR MERKLEY, YOU
WANT TO WEIGH ON THAT?
>> YOU BET.
THE TRADITION HAS BEEN
UP-AND-DOWN VOTES WITH RARE
EXCEPTIONS.
BUT WHAT WE'VE HAD INSTEAD?
S IN THE HISTORY OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA THERE HAVE
BEEN 23 FILIBUSTERS OF DISTRICT
COURT NOMINEES.
20 OF THOSE HAVE BEEN BY THE
REPUBLICAN MINORITY DURING
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S PRESIDENCY.
20 OUT OF 23 IN OUR ENTIRE
HISTORY.
WE CAN TAKE THOSE SAME
STATISTICS AND GO TO AREA AFTER
AREA.
THIS PERPETUAL WAR ON PRESIDENT
OBAMA HAS TO COME TO AN END.
IT'S NOT SERVING THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WANT US
SOLVING PROBLEMS ON THE FLOOR OF
THE SENATE, ADDRESSING THE ISSUE
OF LIVING WAGE JOBS.
ADDRESSING THE ISSUE OF LOW
EMPLOYMENT.
ADDRESSING THE ISSUE OF THE HIGH
EXPENSE OF COLLEGE.
WHAT THEY DON'T WANT IS OUR TIME
WASTED THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE
YEAR ON PERPETUAL FILIBUSTERS OF
NOMINEES.
>> Ifill: SENATOR MERKLEY, THE
PRESIDENT, WHOSE NAME YOU KEEP
INVOKING, WHEN HE WAS A SENATOR
IN 2005 SAID THERE SHOULD BE --
THAT THE RULES ARE THE RULES AND
YOU SHOULDN'T BE CHANGING THEM
IN MIDSTREAM.
WHAT'S DIFFERENT NOW
>> WELL, LET'S TAKE 2005.
IN 2005 A DEAL WAS REACHED BY A
GROUP OF SEVEN REPUBLICANS AND
SEVEN DEMOCRATS.
THE DEAL WAS THAT THERE WOULD BE
NO CHANGE IN THE RULES IF THE
DEMOCRATS AGREED TO ONLY
FILIBUSTER FOR RARE EXCEPTIONAL
CIRCUMSTANCES.
THOSE BEING TERRIBLE PROBLEMS
WITH CHARACTER OR EXPERIENCE.
THIS DEAL WAS COMPLETELY HONORED
BY THE DEMOCRATS.
IN FACT, THEY DIDN'T FILIBUSTER
A SINGLE JUDGE THEREAFTER UNDER
THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION.
BUT IMMEDIATELY UPON THE
REPUBLICANS BECOMING THE
MINORITY PARTY THEY BROKE THE
DEAL AND THE STATISTICS I'VE
GIVEN YOU JUST REFLECTED THAT.
THEY DIDN'T BREAK IT JUST ON
JUDICIAL NOMINEES.
THEY DID IT ON EXECUTIVE
NOMINEES AS WELL.
NOW, HARRY REID AND THE
LEADERSHIP HAVE REPEATEDLY TRIED
TO RESTORE THE SOCIAL CONTRACT,
RESTORE THE UNDERSTANDING OF
FILIBUSTER ONLY ON RARE
EXCEPTION.
BUT THAT HASN'T BEEN POSSIBLE.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK SENATOR
JOHNSON ON THE FLIP SIDE OF THIS
WHICH IS THAT SENATOR McCONNELL,
NOW THE MINORITY LEADER, ALSO IN
2005, ARGUED THAT THERE SHOULD
BE UP OR DOWN VOTES ON NOMINEES.
THAT'S WHEN THERE WAS A
REPUBLICAN PRESIDENT.
WHAT'S DIFFERENT NOW?
>> WELL, AGAIN, I JUST GOT HERE
IN 2010.
UNDER THE RULE OF SENATOR HARRY
REID AND THE FACT OF THE MATTER
-- THE REASON THE SENATE IS SO
DYSFUNCTIONAL IS BECAUSE OF HIS
LEADERSHIP OR LACK OF
LEADERSHIP.
WE HAVEN'T PASSED AN
APPROPRIATION BILL IN THE SENATE
IN OVER TWO THAT'S A
DYSFUNCTION.
ALL THIS TALK ABOUT FILIBUSTER,
IT'S NOT REAL FILIBUSTER BECAUSE
SENATOR HARRY REID FILLS UP THE
AMENDMENT TREE, DOESN'T ALLOW
REPUBLICANS TO OFFER ANY
AMENDMENTS, HE FILES CLOTURE AND
THEN THEN ACCUSES US OF DOING
FILIBUSTERING.
I REALIZE THIS IS ARCANE SENATE
RULES, THE DYSFUNCTION IS ALL
ABOUT SENATOR HARRY REID'S UTTER
LACK OF LEADERSHIP AND JUST
TOTALLY NOT ABLE TO ACTUALLY IS
THE SENATE FUNCTION AND RESPECT
MINORITY RIGHTS WHATSOEVER.
THIS IS A RAW POWER GRAB AND YOU
SAW WHAT HAPPENS LAST TIME THE
DEMOCRATS HAD TOTAL POWER IN THE
SENATE.
WE PASSED OBAMACARE.
AMERICA IS EXPERIENCING THE
DISASTER OF THAT LAW RIGHT NOW.
>> Ifill: LET ME ASK YOU BOTH
THIS QUESTION WHICH I GUESS IS
WHAT I WAS GETTING TO.
DOES WHETHER YOU THINK THIS IS A
GOOD IDEA-- THESE RULES CHANGES
ARE A GOOD IDEA-- DEPEND ON
WHOSE OX IS BEING GORED?
THAT IF YOU'RE IN THE MINORITY
YOU WANT UP OR DOWN VOTES AND IF
YOU'RE IN THE MAJORITY -- OR IF
YOU'RE IN THE MAJORITY YOU WANT
UP OR DOWN VOTES AND IF YOU'RE
MI OR INTY YOU WANT TO HAVE THE
60 VOTE THRESHOLD.
IS THAT WHAT THIS COMES DOWN TO
SENATOR MERKEL?
>> WELL, LET'S RECOGNIZE WHAT IS
HAPPENED IN AMERICA WHICH IS
MUCH MORE POLARIZATION.
SO IN THE PAST WHEN THERE WAS AN
UNDERSTANDING OF THE RARE USE OF
THE FILIBUSTER IT WORKED BECAUSE
SENATORS WORKED TOGETHER ACROSS
THE PARTY BOUNDARY.
BUT NOW WHAT WE HAVE IS A
SITUATION FOR MANY SENATORS THAT
THEIR BASE DEMANDS THAT THEY
EXPLOIT EVERY RULE IN ORDER TO
OBSTRUCT ANY BILL FROM THE
DEMOCRAT SIDE OR ANY NOMINEE
FROM THE DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENT.
THAT CHANGE HAS RESULTED IN MANY
SENATORS WHO SAID IN 2005 THAT
THEY WOULD ALWAYS SUPPORT UP AND
DOWN VOTES WHERER IN THE
MINORITYTOR MAJORITY.
BUT WHEN THEY WERE IN THE
MINORITY THEY CHANGED THEIR
POSITION BECAUSE THEIR BASE
DEMANDED IT.
IT'S UNFORTUNATE, IT REFLECTS A
BIGGER PROBLEM IN SOCIETY BUT
WITHIN THAT STRUCTURE IT IS OUR
RESPONSIBILITY TO MAKE THIS
SENATE SERVE THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
AND ENABLE IT TO TAKE ON THOSE
BIG CHALLENGING ISSUES FACING
AMERICA, IMPROVING THE BASE FOR
THE AMERICAN FAMILY TO THE
SUCCESS OF THE MIDDLE-CLASS.
>> Ifill: SENATOR JOHNSON, WHAT
ABOUT THE WHOSE OX IS BEING
GORED QUESTION?
>> WELL, WE ALREADY HAVE ONE
CHAMBER OF THE CONGRESS THAT'S
RULED BY THE MAJORITY.
THAT'S THE HOUSE.
THE SENATE WAS SUPPOSED TO BE
MORE DELIBERATIVE.
IT'S SUPPOSED TO PROTECT THE
MINORITY RIGHTS.
SENATOR ROBERT BYRD HAS TO BE
ROLLING OVER ON HIS GRAVE BASED
ON WHAT HIS DEMOCRATIC
COLLEAGUES HAVE DONE TODAY.
THIS IS A VERY SAD DAY AND, YOU
KNOW, THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS
THE WAY THE RULES IN THE SENATE
SHOULD BE CHANGED IS AN
INCREDIBLY BIPARTISAN WAY BEFORE
THE START OF EVERY CONGRESS BY
THE A TWO-THIRDS VOTE.
THAT'S HOW YOU GET
BIPARTISANSHIP.
THAT'S HOW YOU START HEALING
THIS DIVIDE THAT REALLY, REALLY
BEGAN WITH THE TOTALLY PARTISAN
VOTE AROUND OBAMACARE.
THAT SPLIT OUR PARTIES.
THAT SPLIT THIS NATION AND IT
HASN'T BEEN HEALED YET AND
TODAY'S ACTION CERTAINLY ISN'T
HELPING HEAL THAT DIVISION.
IT'S WIDENING IT.
IT'S A VERY SAD DAY FOR THE
UNITED STATES SENATE AND
AMERICA.
>> Ifill: THAT'S WHAT I WAS
GOING ASK YOU BOTH AS A FINAL
QUESTION.
DO YOU FEEL LIKE THE SENATE IS
MORE DIVIDED TODAY THAN BEFORE?
SENATOR AMERICALY.
>> DIVISION OF THE SENATE WAS
THAT THERE WOULD BE A COOLING
SAUCER.
WHAT'S WHY WE HAVE STAGGERED
TERMS AND SIX YEARS.
BUT NO ONE INTENDED FOR THE
SENATE TO BE A DEEP FREEZE.
BUT THAT'S WHAT IT'S COME WITH
THE ABUSE OF THE FILIBUSTER.
WHAT I SLOPE THAT BOTH SIDES
WILL SEE THE SUCCESS OF
IMPROVING THE FUNCTION OF THE
SENATE THAT WILL FLOW FROM
TODAY'S ACTION AND WILL JOIN
TOGETHER IN BIPARTISAN WAYS TO
TAKE ON THE DYSFUNCTION ON THE
LEGISLATIVE SIDE WHICH THERE'S
SO MUCH HOPE FOR BY THE AMERICAN
PEOPLE.
>> Ifill: FINAL WORD, SENATOR
JOHNSON?
>> WELL, THE SENATE IS IN DEEP
FREEZE BECAUSE SENATOR HARRY
REID DOESN'T MOVE BILLS, DOESN'T
BRING APPROPRIATION BILLS.
THAT'S THE PRIMARY FUNCTION OF
CONGRESS TO AUTHORIZE
APPROPRIATE FUNDS FOR THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT ACTIVITY.
SENATOR HARRY REID IS NOT DOING
THOSE THINGS.
BASICALLY DIGGING HIS HEELS,
MAKING SURE THAT OBAMACARE
BECOMES THE PERMANENT LAW OF THE
LAND.
AGAIN, WE'RE UNDERSTANDING THE
EXACT -- THE HARMFUL
CONSEQUENCES OF MAJORITY RULE
UNTIL THE SENATE AND OBAMACARE
IS EXHIBIT A FROM THAT
STANDPOINT.
>> Ifill: SOUNDS LIKE A COOLING
SAUCER MIGHT BE IN ORDER AT THIS
POINT.
SENATOR RON JOHNS,ON REPUBLICAN,
SENATOR JEFF MERCURY, DEMOCRAT,
THANK YOU BOTH FOR JOINING US.
>> GREAT TO HAVE YOU.
>> TAKE CARE NOW.
>> Woodruff: TENSIONS ESCALATED
TODAY BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES
AND AFGHANISTAN, ONE DAY AFTER
BOTH SIDES ANNOUNCED THEY HAD
REACHED AN HISTORIC AGREEMENT
PAVING THE WAY FOR THE U.S. TO
LEAVE FORCES IN THAT COUNTRY
BEYOND 2014.
>> ( translated ): MY TRUST WITH
AMERICA IS NOT GOOD.
>> Woodruff: AFGHAN PRESIDENT
HAMID KARZAI OPENED A MEETING OF
TRIBAL ELDERS IN KABUL WITH A
BLUNT ASSESSMENT OF HIS OFTEN
TESTY RELATIONS WITH THE U.S.
STILL, HE URGED THE LOYA JIRGA
TO ENDORSE A NEW SECURITY
AGREEMENT, ALLOWING THOUSANDS OF
AMERICAN TROOPS TO STAY ANOTHER
TEN YEARS IN TRAINING AND
SUPPORT ROLES.
>> ( translated ): THE SECURITY
AGREEMENT WILL GIVE US THE
OPPORTUNITY TO MOVE FROM A
TRANSITIONAL PROCESS TO A STABLE
AS WE ARE IN A PULLOUT PROCESS,
THIS WITHDRAWING OF FOREIGN
TROOPS FROM AFGHANISTAN SHOULD
BE A HAPPY PROCESS.
IF THE FOREIGNERS LEAVE
AFGHANISTAN UNHAPPY, IT WILL BE
VERY DANGEROUS FOR US.
I HOPE YOU GET MY POINT.
>> Woodruff: THEN, TOWARD THE
END OF HIS HOUR-LONG SPEECH,
KARZAI THREW A NEW CURVEBALL; HE
CALLED FOR DELAYING THE ACTUAL
SIGNING OF THE AGREEMENT UNTIL
AFTER NEXT APRIL'S PRESIDENTIAL
ELECTION.
THE U.S. HAD WANTED A DEAL
SIGNED LAST MONTH.
IN WASHINGTON, STATE DEPARTMENT
SPOKESWOMAN JEN PSAKI SAID THE
U.S. IS "SEEKING CLARIFICATION."
>> WE'VE BEEN VERY CLEAR, AS THE
SECRETARY WAS WHEN HE WAS IN
KABUL JUST LAST MONTH, THAT IN
ORDER TO CREATE CERTAINTY, IN
ORDER FOR THE UNITED STATES AND
OUR NATO ALLIES TO PLAN, WE MUST
DO THIS AS QUICKLY AS POSSIBLE.
OTHERWISE, IT PUTS THE PLANNING
OF POST-2014 PRESENCE AT RISK.
>> Woodruff: THE PROPOSED
AGREEMENT HAS SEVERAL KEY
PROVISIONS.
AMONG THEM, GRANTING U.S. TROOPS
IMMUNITY FROM PROSECUTIONS IN
AFGHAN COURTS AND BARRING
AMERICANS FROM RAIDING AFGHAN
HOMES EXCEPT UNDER
"EXTRAORDINARY CIRCUMSTANCES."
IN ADDITION, PRESIDENT OBAMA
SENT A LAST-MINUTE LETTER TO
KARZAI PROMISING THE U.S. WILL
RESPECT AFGHAN SOVEREIGNTY AND
THE DIGNITY OF CITIZENS IN THEIR
HOMES AND PRIVATE LIVES.
IN RESPONSE, KARZAI TODAY
UNDERSCORED HIS COUNTRY'S
EXPECTATIONS.
>> ( translated ): IF AMERICANS
WOULD LIKE TO SIGN THE BILATERAL
SECURITY AGREEMENT, IN RETURN,
WE ASK THEM TO PROVIDE US WITH
STABILITY AND PEACE.
I AM SURE PEACE IS IN THEIR
HANDS.
>> Woodruff: FOREIGN COMBAT
FORCES ARE ALREADY UNDER A
DEADLINE TO DEPART AFGHANISTAN
BY THE END OF NEXT YEAR.
WITHOUT A SECURITY AGREEMENT,
ALL U.S. TROOPS WILL LEAVE, JUST
AS HAPPENED IN IRAQ WHEN BAGHDAD
FAILED TO SIGN A SIMILAR
AGREEMENT IN 2011.
THAT WOULD LEAVE NEARLY 350,000
AFGHAN SECURITY FORCES WITHOUT
FURTHER U.S. MILITARY TRAINING
AND FUNDING.
THE LOYA JIRGA WILL DEBATE
THROUGH SUNDAY.
ITS DECISIONS ARE NOT LEGALLY
BINDING, BUT, EITHER WAY, THE
AFGHAN PARLIAMENT WOULD STILL
HAVE TO RATIFY THE AGREEMENT.
TO HELP US UNDERSTAND THIS BACK
AROUND FORTH AND THE NEED FOR A
DEAL IS JAMES DOBBINS, HE IS THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION'S SPECIAL
REPRESENTATIVE TO AFGHANISTAN
AND PAKISTAN.
AMBASSADOR DOBBINS, WELCOME TO
THE NEWSHOUR.
>> THANK YOU.
>> SO WHAT IS THE TIMETABLE FOR
THIS DEAL?
PRESIDENT KARZAI IS SAYING IT
WOULDN'T BE SIGNED UNTIL APRIL.
THE ADMINISTRATION WANTED IT
DONE LAST MONTH.
WHICH IS IT?
>> WELL, THE TWO SIDES AGREED
LAST NOVEMBER THAT WE WOULD DO
THIS WITHIN A YEAR AND WE
CONTINUE TO BELIEVE IT'S
IMPORTANT TO ACHIEVE THAT
TIMETABLE.
WE'RE PLEASED THAT WE WERE ABLE
TO REACH AGREEMENT WITHIN THAT
TIME FRAME ON THE TEXT AND WE'RE
HOPEFUL THAT THE LOYA JIRGA WILL
GIVE A POSITIVE SIGNAL.
WE'RE PRETTY CONFIDENT THAT THE
AFGHAN PARLIAMENT WILL ALSO
REVIEW THIS AND IT WILL BE
POSITIVE AND WE DO EXPECT THAT
IT WILL BE SIGNED EXPEDITIOUSLY
THEREAFTER.
WE THINK THAT'S IMPORTANT BOTH
BECAUSE WE HAVE OUR OWN NEED TO
PLAN FOR OUR FUTURE COMMITMENT
OR LACK OF COMMITMENT IF IT'S --
IF THE AGREEMENT IS NEVER
CONCLUDED.
ALL OF THE OTHER PARTICIPANTS IN
I.S.A.F.-- THERE'S SOME 40 OF
THEM-- THEY NEED TO PLAN AND
THEIR PLANS ARE DEPENDENT ON OUR
PLANS.
AND FINALLY, AFGHANISTAN IS
GOING TO A VERY DIFFICULT,
DELICATE ELECTION AT A TIME OF
CONSIDERABLE UNCERTAINTY AND WE
FEED TO PROVIDE THE MAXIMUM
DEGREE OF CERTAINTY AND THE
BACKGROUND ABOUT THE
INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE, ABOUT
THE AMERICAN COMMITMENT.
>> Woodruff: SO JUST TO CLARIFY:
DELAYING THE SIGNING UNTIL APRIL
DOESN'T JEOPARDIZE THIS?
>> I THINK DELAYING THE SIGNING
TO APRIL WILL MAKE IT MUCH MORE
DIFFICULT FOR US TO MAKE OUR
COMMITMENTS.
IT WILL MAKE IT MORE DIFFICULT
FOR -- MAKE IT VIRTUALLY
IMPOSSIBLE FOR OTHER COUNTRIES
TO MAKE THEIR COMMITMENTS.
I THINK IT WILL HAVE A LONG-TERM
DELETERIOUS IMPACT ON THE SCALE
OF INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE TO
AFGHANISTAN.
>> Woodruff: SO YOU'RE TRYING TO
GET THEM TO CHANGE HIS MIND?
>> BESIDES THAT, IT'S A
TWO-ROUND ELECTION AND IT'S NOT
NECESSARILY OVER IN APRIL.
IT COULD EXTEND SEVERAL MONTHS
BEYOND THAT BECAUSE IF THE FIRST
ROUND DOESN'T PRODUCE A CLEAR
WINER THERE WILL BE A SECOND
ROUND.
>> Woodruff: SO IT SOUNDS LIKE
YOU'RE TRYING TO GET THEM TO
CHANGE HIS MIND AND MAKE IT
SOONER.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
>> Woodruff: THE REPORTS ARE,
AMBASSADOR DOBBINS,
8,000 TO 12,000 MOSTLY U.S.
TROOPS STAYING IN AFGHANISTAN
ANOTHER DECADE UNTIL 2024 IN A
TRAINING AND COUNTERTERRORISM
MISSION.
IS THAT WHAT THE U.S. WANTS?
>> THE PRESIDENT HASN'T MADE ANY
DECISION ON THE NUMBERS OF THE
AMERICAN TROOPS.
WE DO INTEND THAT WE WOULD
PROBABLY THE LARGEST CONTRIBUTOR
IN AN ALLIED FORCE.
THE FORCE WOULD BE IN A
NON-COMBAT ROLE, TRAIN, ASSIST,
AND ADVISE.
THERE WOULD BALANCE A SMALL
AMERICAN COUNTERTERRORISM FORCE
THAT WOULD BE STATIONED UNDER
THIS AGREEMENT.
BUT THE BULK OF THE TROOPS WILL
BE IN THE TRAIN-ADVISE-ASSIST
AND WOULD BE A NATO FORCE WITH
THE UNITED STATES AS THE LARGEST
SINGLE CONTRIBUTOR BUT WITH A
SIGNIFICANT NUMBER OF OTHER
COUNTRIES CONTRIBUTING.
>> Woodruff: BUT YOU'RE TALKING
IN THE THOUSANDS OF U.S. TROOPS.
>> POTENTIALLY.
>> Woodruff: AND YOU SAID NOT A
COMBAT ROLE BUT COUNTERTERRORISM
SO THEY'D BE ARMED.
THEY'D POTENTIALLY BE PUTTING
THEIR LIVES AT RISK.
>> I THINK THE COUNTERTERRORISM
ELEMENT WILL BE RELATIVELY SMALL
COMPARED TO THE
TRAIN-ADVISE-ASSIST.
AFGHANISTAN REMAINS A DANGEROUS
ENVIRONMENT AND, YES, SMALL
FORCES WILL BE ASSUMING SOME
DEGREE OF RISK.
BUT U.S. CASUALTIES ARE WAY DOWN
ALREADY BECAUSE AFGHANS ARE IN
THE LEAD AND AT THE POINT WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT, THE AFGHANS WILL
BE COMPREHENSIVELY UNDERTAKING
THE DEFENSE OF THE COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT IS THE
ARGUMENT TO THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
THAT THEY SHOULD SUPPORT AN
AGREEMENT THAT KEEPS ANY NUMBER
OF U.S. TROOPS IN AFGHANISTAN
FOR SEVERAL MORE YEARS?
UP TO TEN MORE YEARS.
>> WELL, WE CONTINUE TO WANT TO
DENY AFGHANISTAN AS A LAUNCH
POINT FOR INTERNATIONAL
TERRORISM.
THE TALIBAN CONTINUE TO BE
LINKED WITH AL QAEDA.
IF THE TALIBAN WERE ABLE TO COME
BACK, SEIZE CONTROL WITH SOME OR
MOST OR EVEN ALL OF THE COUNTRY,
YOU WOULD AGAIN HAVE A REGIME
LINKED TO AL QAEDA AND PREPARED
TO FACILITATE THOSE KINDS OF
ATTACKS.
AND WE NOW BELIEVE THAT WE CAN
DO IT WITH MUCH SMALLER
COMMITMENT BECAUSE WE HAVE
RAISED AND TRAINED AND HELPED
SUPPORT AN AFGHAN ARMY AND
POLICE FORCE OF ABOUT
350,000.
BUT WE DON'T BELIEVE THAT WE CAN
AFFORD TO ABANDON AFGHANISTAN
ALL TOGETHER.
>> Woodruff: THE AGREEMENT ALSO
HAS LANGUAGE IN IT, THOUGH, THAT
PUTS LIMITS ON WHAT U.S. TROOPS
CAN DO IN TERMS OF NOT GOING,
FOR EXAMPLE, INTO PRIVATE HOMES
UNLESS THERE'S AN URGENT REASON
TO DO SO.
HOW MUCH OF A DISADVANTAGE IS
THAT?
>> THE AGREEMENT ACTUALLY PRETTY
MUCH DESCRIBES WHAT WE'RE
ALREADY DOING.
AFGHAN TROOPS ARE IN THE LEAD. .
WE SOMETIMES ACCOMPANY AFGHAN
TROOPS THAT GO INTO AFGHAN HOMES
IF THEY HAVE REASON TO SEARCH
THE HOME. WE'RE
PRECLUDED FROM DOING IN THE
AGREEMENT ARE BY AND LARGE
THINGS WE'VE ALREADY CEASED
DOING AND AFTER ALL WE WANT
THESE ROLES TO BE ASSUMED BY THE
AFGHANS.
WE DON'T WANT TO CONTINUE TO
HAVE TO DO THEM OURSELVES.
>> Woodruff: SKI BECAUSE THAT
SPECIFIC LANGUAGE IS IN THE
AGREEMENT.
THE AFGHANS WERE -- FELT VERY
STRONGLY THAT IT SHOULD BE IN.
>> RIGHT.
RIGHT.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY, OPTION
DORR DOBBINS, AMONG OTHER THING
WHAT IS PRESIDENT KARZAI SAID
TODAY WAS HE SAID "MY TRUST WITH
AMERICA IS NOT GOOD."
AGAIN, FOR AMERICANS TO SEE
THEIR TROOPS COMMITTED TO A
COUNTRY WHERE THE RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN THE LEADERS -- OR AT
LEAST ON THE PART OF PRESIDENT
KARZAI TOWARDS THE UNITED STATES
IS SHAKY AT BEST, HOW DO YOU --
HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN THAT TO THE
AMERICAN PEOPLE?
>> WELL, PRESIDENT KARZAI IS NOT
GOING TO BE PRESIDENT OF THE
COUNTRY MORE THAN ANOTHER FOUR
MONTHS, APPROXIMATELY.
FOUR TO SIX MONTHS DEPENDING ON
WHETHER THE ELECTION GOES INTO A
SECOND ROUND.
AFGHANISTAN IS A DEMOCRACY, IT'S
HOLDING ELECTIONS.
I THINK WE WILL JUDGE
AFGHANISTAN'S ATTITUDE TOWARD
OUR FORCES AND TOWARD OUR
COMMITMENT BY WHAT THE LOYA
JIRGA-- WHICH IS CURRENTLY
MEETING-- DECIDES.
AND PERHAPS EQUALLY IMPORTANTLY
WHAT THE PARLIAMENT ULTIMATELY
DECIDES WHEN THIS AGREEMENT IS
SUBMITTED TO THEM.
AT THIS POINT WE ANTICIPATE
STRONG SUPPORT THIS BOTH FORMS.
>> Woodruff: YOU DO EXPECT
STRONG SUPPORT?
>> YES.
>> Woodruff: AND A NEW LEAD WE
ARE A BETTER ATTITUDE TOWARDS
THE UNITED STATES?
>> WELL, AT THIS POINT THERE ARE
11 CANDIDATES.
THE ENTIRE POLITICAL CLASS OF
THE COUNTRY IS ENGAGED AS
CANDIDATES OR SUPPORTING
CANDIDATES.
I THINK SEVERAL OF THE
CANDIDATES HAVE ALREADY SAID
THEY WOULD SIGN THIS AGREEMENT
IF PRESIDENT KARZAI DIDN'T.
WE DON'T WANT TO POSTPONE
SIGNATURE TO THAT POINT.
SO I DON'T WANT TO CHARACTERIZE,
YOU KNOW, THE INDIVIDUAL
CANDIDATES.
WE'RE NOT BACKING ANY ONE OF
THEM.
BUT I DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY OF
THEM WE COULDN'T LIVE WITH.
>> Woodruff: AMBASSADOR JAMES
DOBBINS WHO WAS THE
ADMINISTRATION'S SPECIAL
REPRESENTIVE TO AFGHANISTAN AND
PAKISTAN, THANK YOU.
>> MY PLEASURE.
>> Ifill: HOPES TO REACH AN
INTERIM DEAL OVER IRAN'S NUCLEAR
PROGRAM WERE TEMPERED BY TOUGH
WORDS AND FEW POSITIVE ONES IN
GENEVA TODAY.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER IS
COVERING THE TALKS FOR US.
I SPOKE TO HER A SHORT TIME AGO.
MARGARET, GOOD TO SEE YOU.
EVERYBODY AROUND THE TABLE IN
GENEVA SEEMS TO BE TALKING ABOUT
SOME VERSION OF TRUST.
WHAT HAPPENED TODAY?
>> WHAT HAPPENED TODAY, GWEN, IS
ONE WE'VE GOT A NEWS BLACKOUT.
I'D SAY TWO NEW DYNAMICS
EMERGED.
THE TWO SIDES ARE DEFINITELY
TALKING ABOUT THE SUBSTANCE.
THAT IS, THEY HAVE A TEXT IN
FRONT OF THEM, A DRAFT, AND
THEY'RE TRYING TO IRON OUT THE
DIFFERENCES.
BUT THE NEW DYNAMIC IS THE ONLY
SUBSTANTIVE TALKS TAKING PLACE
ARE BETWEEN THE IRANIAN FOREIGN
MINISTER SAA REEF AND THE
E.U./U.N. CO-CHAIRMAN OF THESE
TALKS CATHERINE ASHTON.
AND I WAS TOLD BY THE IRANIANS
THAT THAT WAS AT IRAN'S
INSISTENCE.
THEY DON'T WANT A SITUATION
WHERE THEY AGREE TO SOMETHING,
THEY THINK THEY'VE AGREED TO
SOMETHING AND SOME OTHER FOREIGN
MINISTER FLIES IN THE WAY THE
FRENCH DID LAST TIME AND RAISES
OBJECTIONS.
AND A EUROPEAN SOURCE CONFIRMED
TO ME TONIGHT THAT THAT WAS THE
CASE.
THAT WAS IRAN'S INSISTENCE.
>> Ifill: SO IT'S FAIR TO SAY
SECRETARY KERRY IS NOT THERE.
DO WE KNOW IF HE'S COMING?
>> NO.
AND EARLY IN THE DAY THERE WAS A
LOT OF BUZZ-- AND YOU CERTAINLY
SAW SECURITY GUYS PREPARING FOR
ALL KINDS OF FOREIGN MINISTERS
TO FLY IN.
BUT TONIGHT THE SENSE VERY MUCH
IS THIS COULD GO INTO THE
WEEKEND.
TALKS HAVE ENDED.
THEY ENDED AROUND 9:00 BETWEEN
ASHTON AND ZARIF.
ASHTON HAS TO COGO BACK AND
CONSULT WITH HER SIX COUNTRIES,
INCLUDING THE U.S.
>> Ifill: SENATE MAJORITY LEADER
HARRY REID SAID IN WASHINGN HETO
IS GOING TO PUT OFF ANY FURTHER
SENATE ACTION ON WHETHER
SANCTIONS SHOULD BE INCREASED
AGAINST IRAN UNTIL AFTER THE
HOLIDAY, AFTER THANKSGIVING.
WAS THAT THE KIND OF DEAL, THE
DELAY, KERRY WAS LOOKING?
>> WELL, IT WAS GOING INTO THESE
TALKS BUT IT STILL WAS NOT A
REASSURING SIGNAL AND HERE'S
WHY: WHAT HARRY REID-- WHO HAS
SUCCESSFULLY BOTTLED UP ANY
ATTEMPT TO PASS NEW SANCTIONS
THROUGH PARLIAMENTARY
MANEUVERS-- WAS SAYING TODAY IS
"COME DECEMBER 9 WHEN WE'RE BACK
ALL BETS ARE OFF AND, IN FACT,
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE A BILL, A
BIPARTISAN NEW SANCTIONS BILL
THROUGH THE SENATE."
THE HOUSE HAS ALREADY PASSED
ONE.
THE IRANIANS HAVE SAID IF THAT
HAPPENS AS FAR AS THEY'VE
CONCERNED -- DURING NEGOTIATIONS
IF THAT HAPPENS THEN
NEGOTIATIONS ARE REALLY -- THEY
HAVEN'T SAID OVER BUT PRETTY
IMPOSSIBLE BECAUSE ROUHANI, THE
PRESIDENT, THE NEW PRESIDENT, IS
GOING TO BE UNDER SUCH PRESSURE
FROM THE SUPREME LEADER AND
HARD-LINERS AT HOME.
AND SO THIS -- YOU KNOW, YOU CAN
SAY, IT BUYS THEM TWO WEEKS BUT
IT ADDS A SENSE OF URGENCY TO
THESE TALKS.
AN IRANIAN TOLD ME TONIGHT THAT
ISARIF, TOO, IS UNDER PRESSURE
AT HOME AND HE POINTED TO THE
T.V. MONITOR THAT SHOWED ZARIF
AND ASHTON SITTING DOWN IN A
MEETING AND HE SAID "JUST LOOK
AT HIS BODY LANGUAGE."
AND IT'S TRUE.
I'VE SEEN HIM IN PERSON SEVERAL
TIMES AND HE IS NOT AS WARM AND
EXPANSIVE IN HIS ATTITUDES HERE
AS HE WAS BEFORE.
HE'S UNDER PRESSURE TO PRODUCE
AND THIS IRANIAN VERY MUCH
INVOLVED WITH THE DELEGATION
SAID "IF THIS -- IF THEY DON'T
GET A DEAL THIS TIME, IT'S NOT
EVEN CLEAR ZARIF WILL BE ALLOWED
TO RETURN."
AND, OF COURSE, AS WE DISCUSSED
LAST NIGHT, JUDY AND I DID,
SECRETARY KERRY AND PRESIDENT
OBAMA ARE UNDER PRESSURE IN THE
U.S. ALSO.
>> Ifill: IS THERE ANY WAY OF
KNOWING WHETHER WE'RE CLOSER OR
FARTHER AWAY?
>> I WOULD SAY WE'RE CLOSER THAN
YESTERDAY WHEN THEY DIDN'T EVEN
TALK ABOUT SUBSTANCE, WHAT'S
CLEAR NOW IS THE PROCESS THEY
WERE TALKING ABOUT--
QUOTE/UNQUOTE-- HAD TO DO WITH
THE INSISTENCE THAT THEY WERE
ONLY GOING TO DEAL WITH ONE
PERSON.
SO THEY'RE PROBABLY CLOSER.
THEY'RE STILL TALKING AND
THEY'RE TALKING ON SUBSTANCE BUT
THERE ARE SEVERAL OUTSTANDING
ISSUES AS WE KNOW.
THIS SO-CALLED IRANIANS'
INSISTENCE ON THE RIGHT TO
ENRICH.
THERE IS SOME INDICATION FROM
BOTH THE U.S. AND IRANIANS,
THEY'VE FIGURED OUT A WAY TO
FINESSE IT WHICH IS THE U.S.
WILL HAVE ONE UNDERSTANDING AND
THE IRANIANS WILL HAVE ANOTHER
AND ZARIF SAID "WE DON'T NEED
THE WORLD TO RECOGNIZE OUR RIGHT
TO ENRICH."
WHICH IS A SOFTENING OF THEIR
POSITION.
BUT THERE ARE A LOT OF OTHERS.
SOME OF THE ONE IT IS FRENCH
WERE HEADLINE ON.
AND THE REAL ISSUE IS NOW THAT
THE IRANIANS HAVE COME BACK WITH
THEIR COUNTERPROPOSALS ON
CERTAIN PARTS OF THE CONSENSUS
TEXT, CAN THE SIX FOREIGN
MINISTERS-- U.S. THROUGH THE
FRENCH-- STICK TOGETHER AND THE
FRENCH FOREIGN MINISTER HAD YOU
HAVE TO WORDS WHEN ASKED IF
THERE WAS A DEAL POSSIBLE.
HE SAID "IT'S ALL A QUESTION OF
FIRMNESS AND RIGHT NOW THE
IRANIANS CAN'T ACCEPT WHAT THE
SIX WANT."
WELL, THE SIX ARE GOING TO HAVE
TO MAKE SOME FURTHER DECISIONS
HERE AND THAT'S THE OUTSTANDING
QUESTION.
>> Ifill: AT LEAST THE
CONVERSATIONS WILL STILL
CONTINUE.
WE ARE GLAD YOU ARE THERE
WATCHING THEM.
MARGARET WARNER FOR US IN
GENEVA.
>> THANKS, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: THE ASSASSINATION
OF PRESIDENT JOHN F. KENNEDY ON
NOVEMBER 22, 1963, SHOCKED THIS
NATION TO THE CORE AND RATTLED
THE WORLD.
OUR OWN ROBERT MACNEIL AND JIM
LEHRER WERE BOTH ON THE GROUND
IN DALLAS, COVERING THE
PRESIDENT'S VISIT THAT DAY.
AND ALTHOUGH THEY WOULD NOT
FORMALLY MEET FOR YEARS, THESE
TWO JOURNALISTS CROSSED PATHS
MULTIPLE TIMES.
I TALKED WITH THEM RECENTLY
ABOUT THE DAY AND ITS AFTERMATH.
>> IT'S BEEN ONE OF THOSE DAYS
THAT A REPORTER FINDS HIMSELF
MUSING ABOUT WHEN HE'S HALF
ASLEEP SOMETIMES ON A PLANE.
YOUR MIND DRIFTS AS YOU PREPARE
FOR THE BIG STORY: WHAT IS
LIKELY TO HAPPEN AT THIS MOMENT
AND THAT?
SOMETIMES YOUR MIND DRIFTS TO
THE MOST EXTREME THING THAT
COULD HAPPEN AND YOU HASTILY
DISMISS IT BECAUSE THE MOST
EXTREME THING NEVER DOES HAPPEN.
>> Woodruff: THE DAY STARTED OUT
DRIZZLY AND COOL.
FOR ROBIN MacNEIL IT WAS A
MILESTONE.
HIS FIRST PRESIDENTIAL TRIP AS
AN NBC WHITE HOUSE
CORRESPONDENT.
HE WAS ASSIGNED TO COVER
PRESIDENT JOHN KENNEDY'S SPEECH
IN DALLAS THAT AFTERNOON, AN
ANTICIPATED REBUTTAL TO THE
PRESIDENT'S CONSERVATIVE
CRITICS.
CITY OFFICIALS BEEFED UP
SECURITY AHEAD OF THE VISIT.
THE PREVIOUS MONTH IN DALLAS,
UNITED NATIONS AMBASSADOR ADLAI
STEVENSON WAS MET BY ANGRY
RIGHT-WING PROTESTORS TO SPAT ON
HIM AND STRUCK HIM WITH SIGNS.
AND THOUSANDS OF ANTI-KENNEDY
FLYERS ACCUSING THE PRESIDENT OF
TREASON HAD BEEN DISTRIBUTED
DOWNTOWN IN THE DAYS BEFORE HIS
VAL.ARRI
DESPITE THAT BACKDROP,
SUPPORTERS TURNED OUT IN DROVES
OUTSIDE THE PRESIDENT'S HOTEL IN
FORT WORTH THAT MORNING WHERE
THOFS GIVE A SPEECH BEFORE
HEADING TO DALLAS.
IT WAS A BREAKFAST EVENT FOR THE
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE AND FIRST
LADY JACKIE KENNEDY STOLE THE
SHOW, RECEIVING A STANDING
OVATION UPON HER ARRIVAL.
>> A FEW YEARS AGO I SAID THAT
-- I INTRODUCED MYSELF IN PARIS
BY SAYING I WAS THE MAN WHO
ACCOMPANIED MRS. KENNEDY TO
PARIS.
I'M GETTING SOMEWHAT THAT SAME
SENSATION AS I TRAVEL AROUND
TEXAS.
>> WHEN WE GOT ON TO THE PRESS
PLANE, THE PRESS PLANE FLEW TO
DALLAS IN SEVEN MINUTES.
AT THAT TIME THE TRADITION ON
THE PRESS PLANE WAS STEWARDESS
AS WE CALLED THEM IN THOSE DAYS
IMMEDIATELY LEFT THE GATE AND
CAME DOWN WITH A TRAY OF BLOODY
MARYS MARY.
>> Woodruff: ON A SEVEN-T
AND I WAS STILL TIPPING UP THE
GLASS AND THE ICE AND A LITTLE
LEMON THING AND IT WAS BUMPING
AGAINST MY NOSES A WE LANDED IN
DALLAS.
THAT'S HOW SHORT IT WAS.
>> Woodruff: AMONG THE CROWD
WAITING AT LOVE FIELD WAS JIM
LEHRER, THEN A REPORTER FOR THE
DALLAS "TIMES-HERALD."
>> I WAS CHECKING THE TELEPHONE
LINE BACK TO THE CITY DESK
DOWNTOWN AND THE MAN SAID "ARE
THEY GOING TO HAVE THE BUBBLE
TOP ON THE PRESIDENTIAL
LIMOUSINE?"
BECAUSE I HAD DONE ADVANCED
STORIES I ASPAPEROUBBT
THE KENNEDY VISIT.
AND THE IDEA WAS IF THE WEATHER
WAS BAD THERE WOULD BE A BUBBLE
TOP TO PROTECT THE KENNEDYS FROM
THE RAIN.
AND IT HAD RAINED THAT MORNING
IN DALLAS.
SO I PUT THE PHONE DOWN, I GO
DOWN TO THE RAMP AND THERE WERE
SIX CARS, SIX OR SEVEN CARS.
ALL THE CARS, THE OFFICIAL CARS
IN THE MOTORCADE AND THE
PRESIDENTIAL LIMO WAS ONE OF
THEM AND THE BUBBLE TOP WAS UP.
AND THE BUBBLE TOP WAS A ONE
QUARTER INCH THICK PLEXIGLAS AND
IT WAS DESIGNED STRICTLY -- IT
WASN'T BULLETPROOF.
>> Woodruff: NOT BULLETPROOF.
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE THOUGHT IT
WAS BUT IT WASN'T.
AT ANY RATE, THE SECRET SERVICE
AGENT WAS STANDING AT THE TOP OF
THE RAMP I HAPPENED TO KNOW AND
I SAID TO HIM "MR. SOROS, I SEE
THE BUBBLE TOP IS UP.
REWRITE WANTS TO KNOW IF IT'S
GOING TO BE UP DURING THE
THING."
AND I'LL NEVER FORGET THIS, HE
LOOKS UP AT THE SKY AND IT'S
CLEAR AND HE SAYS "WELL --" AND
HE YELLS DOWN WITH AN AGENT WITH
A TWO-WAY RADIO AND HE SAYS
"CHECK IT DOWNTOWN STWH?
WHAT'S IT LIKE DOWN TOWN?
" AND THEN HE SAYS "CLEAR
DOWNTOWN."
AND THE AGENT THAT I'M TALKING
TO THEN YELLS TO THE OTHER
AGENTS WHO WERE IN CHARGE OF THE
MOTORCADE "LOSE THE BUBBLE TOP."
SO THEY TAKE THE BUBBLE TOP
DOWN.
>> Woodruff: AIR FORCE ONE
DESCENDED THAT MORNING WITH MORE
THAN
2,500 PEOPLE WATCHING.
>> THE KENNEDYS GOT OUT AND THEY
WERE A REMEN ARE DENT SITE.
REMEN ARE DENT SITE.
AND WHEN SHE GOT OFF AIR FORCE
ONE WITH THE BRIGHT BRILLIANT
SUN THAT DAY SHINING ON HER
GLEAMING BLACK AIR AND THE PINK
OUTFIT SHE WAS WEARING THE WHOLE
ATMOSPHERE WAS ONE OF SOMETHING
GLOWING WITH EXTRA LIGHT.
THEN THEY PUT A BIG ARMLOAD OF
BLOOD RED ROSES IN HER ARMS
AGAINST THE PINK SUIT AND IT WAS
-- THE IMAGES AND THE COLOR HURT
THE EYES.
AND IT WAS THE STUDENTS THERE
HOLDING THE CONFEDERATE FLAG AND
A TEXAS FLAG.
>> THERE WERE VERY POSITIVE
SIGNS THAT PEOPLE IN THE CROWD
WERE, FOR THE MOST PART -- IT'S
AMAZING THAT YOU DIDN'T -- WHAT
DID YOU LOOK LIKE THEN?
>> I LOOKED ABOUT 50 YEARS
YOUNGER.
(LAUGHS)
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENTIAL
MOTORCADE STARTED ITS JOURNEY
TOWARD DOWNTOWN DALLAS.
THE PRESS BUSES NOT FAR BEHIND.
MORE THAN
150,000 PEOPLE LINED THE
TEN-MILE-LONG ROUTE.
>> IT LOOKED LIKE FLOODED
RIVER AND YOU WONDERED HOW THE
CARS -- HOW THE MOTORCADE COULD
GO THROUGH.
BUT THE ATMOSPHERE WAS REALLY
EXTRAORDINARY.
I MEAN, IT WAS -- THE RADIANCE
ON THE FACES OF THE PEOPLE, THE
ABSOLUTE DELIGHT IN SEEING THE
KENNEDYS WAS SO APPARENT.
>> Woodruff: THEN TRAGEDY.
AT 12:30 P.M. CENTRAL STANDARD
TIME-- SHORTLY AFTER THE
PRESIDENTIAL LIMOUSINE TURNED ON
TO ELM STREET TO MAKE ITS WAY
THROUGH DEALEY PLAZA-- PRESIDENT
KENNEDY AND TEXAS GOVERNOR JOHN
CONNOLLY WERE STRUCK.
YOU HEARD A SHOT?
>> HEARD A BANG AND WE ALL SAID
"WAS THAT A SHOT?
WAS THAT A BACK SNIR" AND THERE
WERE TWO SHOTS MUCH CLOSER
TOGETHER.
"BANG, BANG."
VERY CLOSE AND I SAID "THOSE ARE
SHOTS!" AND I GOT UP.
I SAID "STOP THE BUS."
AND I GOT OUT OF THE BUS AND THE
AIR WAS FILLED WITH THE MOST
INCREDIBLE SCREAMING.
IT JUST -- IT WAS LIKE -- IT WAS
LIKE CHOIRS ALL SINGING OUT OF
TUNE.
JUST THE MOST AMAZING SOUND.
AND ANYWAY, I LOOKED AND THERE
WERE PEOPLE RUNNING UP A GRASSY
SLOPE, OR THE GRASSY KNOLL AS IT
CAME TO BE KNOWN, INCLUDING
POLICEMEN.
AND THERE ARE PEOPLE LYING ON
THE GRASS COVERING THEIR
CHILDREN WITH THEIR BODIES AND I
THOUGHT THEY'D SEEN SOME GUNMAN,
THEY'RE CHASING HIM SO I RAN UP
THE GRASSY KNOLL BEHIND THEM AND
I THOUGHT "I BETTER CALL NBC,
SHOTS FIRED."
>> Woodruff: THE FIRST BUILDING
HE SAW WAS THE TEXAS BOOK
DEPOSITORY WHERE A YOUNG MAN IN
SHIRT SLEEVES DIRECTED MacNEIL
TO A TELEPHONE INSIDE.
>> IT WAS NOT KNOWN IF THE SHOTS
WERE AIMED AT THE PRESIDENT.
REPEAT, IT IS NOT KNOWN IF THE
SHOTS WERE AIMED AT THE
PRESIDENT.
THIS IS ROBERT MacNEIL, NBC NEWS
IN DALLAS, TEXAS.
>> Woodruff: AFTER REPORTING A
SHORT NBC RADIO SPOT, MacNEIL
HAD TO FIGURE OUT A WAY TO GET
TO THE HOSPITAL.
>> I STOPPED A CAR THAT CAME
ALONG, IT WAS A YOUNG MAN
DELIVERING CAKE BOXES OR
SOMETHING.
I SAID "THE PRESIDENT'S BEEN
SHOT, I'LL GIVE YOFIVEU  BUCKS
IF YOU DRIVE ME TO PARKLAND
HOSPITAL."
FIVE BUCKS WAS FIVE BUCKS THEN.
I KEPT SAYING "NEVER MIND THE
RED LIGHT, NEVER MIND THE
POLICE."
>> Reporter: OUTSIDE PARKLAND
HOSPITAL, A STUNNED CROWD BEGAN
TOATHE GR AND WAS ABSORBING THE
NEWS.
>> THERE WAS A VISITING ROOM
THERE AND THERE WERE TWO
COIN-OPERATED PHONES ON THE WALL
AND I GRABBED ONE OF THEM AND I
HAD IT FOR THE REST OF THE
AFTERNOON.
AND VARIOUS INTERNS AND DOCTORS
AND PEOPLE WOULD HOLD IT FOR ME
AS I WENT OFF TO FIND OTHER
STUFF.
>> WE ARE EXPECTING MOMENTARY
LAY TELEPHONE CALL, THAT'S WHY
I'M SEATED HERE WITH THIS
TELEPHONE HERE FROM NBC'S ROBERT
MacNEIL.
>> Woodruff: WITH NBC ANCHORS
FRANK McGEE AND CHET HUNTLEY ON
THE LINE, MacNEIL SPOKE IN
PHRASES REPEATED BY McGEE AND
PATCHED LIVE INTO LIVING ROOMS
AROUND THE NATION.
>> AND LAST RITES OF THE CHURCH
HAVE JUST BEEN ADMINISTERED.
>> Woodruff: 30 MINUTES AFTER
THE PLANNED START OF THE
PRESIDENT'S SPEECH AT THE DALLAS
TRADEMARK, ACTING WHITE HOUSE
PRESS SECRETARY MATT KILL DUFF
MADE THE ANNOUNCEMENT FROM A
MAKESHIFT BRIEFING ROOM IN A
NURSES' CLASSROOM.
>> HE DIED OF GUNSHOT WOUNDS IN
THE BRAIN.
>> Woodruff: HOURS LATER, BACK
AT LOVE FIELD, SECRET SERVICE
AGENTS LOADED PRESIDENT
KENNEDY'S CASKET ON TO AIR FORCE
ONE.
SHORTLY AFTERWARD, VICE
PRESIDENT LYNDON JOHNSON TOOK
THE OATH OF OFFICE ABOARD THE
PLANE WITH MRS. KENNEDY AT HIS
SIDE.
MEANWHILE, LEE HARVEY OSWALD HAS
BEEN APPREHENDED AT THE TEXAS
THEATER IN SOUTHWEST DALLAS
AFTER POLICE DISCOVERED EMPTY
RIFLE SHELLS BY THE SIXTH FLOOR
WINDOW OF THE BOOK DEPOSITORY
WHERE HE WORKED.
IT WAS NOT UNTIL YEARS LATER INA
PRESIDENT" THAT HISTORIAN
WILLIAM MANCHESTER WOULD
IDENTIFY THAT YOUNG MAN IN SHIRT
SLEEVES, THE ONE WHO TOLD
MacNEIL WAS TO FIND A PHONE AS
OSWALD HIMSELF.
UNKNOWN THE MANCHESTER AND A
REPORT NOT PUBLISHED BY THE
WARREN COMMISSION, THE SECRET
SERVICE CONCLUDED THAT OSWALD
HAD ACTUALLY TALKED TO PIERCE
ALLMAN, A DALLAS RADIO REPORTER.
BUT IT HAS ALWAYS BEEN A "WHAT
IF" MOMENT FOR MacNEIL.
>> WHEN THEY TALKED ABOUT A
CONNECTION IN THE BOOK
DEPOSITORY AND A MAN BEING
ARRESTED AFTER A POLICEMAN HAD
BEEN SHOT AND THAT HE WORKED IN
THE BOOK DEPOSITORY I THOUGHT
"OH, MY GOD, THAT'S WHERE I WENT
AND I WONDER IF --".
>> Woodruff: BACK AT DALLAS
POLICE HEADQUARTERS, OSWALD WAS
HAULED IN FOR QUESTIONING.
>> I DIDN'T SHOOT ANYBODY, SIR.
I HAVEN'T EVEN BEEN TOLD WHAT
I'M HERE FOR.
>> I WAS THEREUST J AS THEY
BROUGHT IN OSWALD.
I WROTE HIS NAME DOWN, I STILL
HAD A NOTEBOOK.
I'M ONE OF THOSE PEOPLE TO ASK
"DID YOU SHOOT THE PRESIDENT?"
>> I WAS ALSO IN THE POLICE
STATION THAT EVENING AND DOING
REPORTS FOR NBC AND I SAW OSWALD
PARADED BACK AND WHEN HE SAID "I
DIDN'T KILL ANYBODY, I'M JUST A
PATSY."
>> AND THE GUY STANDING NEXT TO
ME WHO I DID NOT KNOW AT THE
TIME WAS JACK RUBY.
IT WASN'T UNTIL SUNDAY WHEN HE
SHOT OSWALD AND I SAW THE
PICTURE AND I SAID "HOLY SMOKES!
THERE IS LEE OSWALD.
HE'S BEEN SHOT!
LEE OSWALD HAS BEEN SHOT!
THERE'S A MAN WITH A GUN.
IT'S ABSOLUTE PANIC HERE IN THE
BASEMENT OF DALLAS POLICE
HEADQUARTERS.
>> NBC WAS ON THE AIR WHEN IT
HAPPENED AND MY FRIEND AND
COLLEAGUE THE LATE TOM PETTITTE
WAS THE ONE WHO SAID "HE'S BEEN
SHOT, OSWALD'S BEEN SHOT."
AND SOMEBODY AT NBC SAID "GO
LIVE" AT THAT MOMENT WHEN OSWALD
WAS BROUGHT OUT.
>> HE IS LYING VERY PALE.
>> Woodruff: OSWALD WAS BRUSHED
TO THE HOSPITAL BUT DIED LESS
THAN TWO HOURS LATER.
WHAT ABOUT THE -- THE OSWALD
PIECE OF THIS?
THE PERSON WHO WAS BEHIND IT.
SO MANY THEORIES SINCE THEN
ABOUT WHETHER IT WAS ONE PERSON,
WHETHER IT WAS NOT.
DOES YOUR HAVING BEEN THERE,
BEEN SO CLOSE TO WHAT HAPPENED,
GIVEN YOU A STRONG FEELING ONE
WAY OR ANOTHER?
>> I RAN DOWN EVERY CONSPIRACY
THEORY AND I COVERED THE WARREN
COMMISSION STUFF AND ALL THAT
AND I CAME AWAY WITH THIS VIEW,
JUDY, THAT I WAS UNABLE TO -- IN
MY OWN MIND LOOKING AT IT
PROFESSIONALLY I WAS UNABLE TO
CONCLUDE THAT THERE WAS A
CONSPIRACY.
I WAS ALWAYS PREPARED TO
ENTERTAIN THE POSSIBILITY THAT
OSWALD DID NOT ACT ALONE.
NOW WE SIT HERE 50 YEARS LATER,
NO STORY HAS DEVELOPED THAT TO
MY SATISFACTION, AT LEAST, THAT
SHOWS BEYOND ANY -- THAT GOES
BEYOND SHOWING THE POSSIBILITY,
REAL POSSIBILITY, THAT THERE WAS
CONSPIRACY.
>>LL A I CAN CONTRIBUTE TO THIS
IS A QUESTION IN MY OWN MIND
WHAT MADE ME RUN UP THE GRASSY
NOT AFTER GETTING OUT OF THE
BUS?
WHY DID DALLAS POLICEMEN RUN UP
THERE?
BECAUSE SOMEBODY THOUGHT THEY
HEARD SOMETHING UP THERE OVER
THE OVERPASS AT THE TOP OF THE
GRASSY NOEL.
AND WHERE WHERE?
THERE IS CONSPIRACY THEORIES
THAT POSITED ANOTHER GUNMAN.
GRASS OWE KNOLL AND THE SINGLE
BULLET THEORY AND ALL THIS
STUFF.
I ASSUME THAT DALLAS POLICEMEN
WERE AS EXPERIENCED AS ANYBODY
COULD BE IN HEARING GUNSHOTS
ECHOING OFF BUILDINGS IN AN
URBAN ATMOSPHERE.
SOMEBODY HEARD SOMETHING THAT
MADE THEM RUN UP THERE AND
THAT'S ALL I CAN CONTRIBUTE.
I HAVEN'T SEEN ANYTHING THAT IS
REAL EVIDENCE OF A CONSPIRACY.
>> Woodruff: BACK IN WASHINGTON
JUST MINUTES AFTER OSWALD'S
DEATH IN DALLAS PRESIDENT
KENNEDY'S FLAG-DRAPED CASKET
ENTERED THE ROTUNDA OF THE U.S.
CAPITOL.
THE FOLLOWING DAY, AN ESTIMATED
ONE MILLION PEOPLE LINED THE
STREETS OF WASHINGTON AS THE
STATE FUNERAL PROCESSION WOUND
ITS WAY FROM THE CAPITOL TO THE
WHITE HOUSE.
TO ST. MATTHEW'S CATHEDRAL.
AND FINALLY TO ARLINGTON
CEMETERY.
>> FOR THREE DAYS ALL MY
EMOTIONS WERE FROZEN.
IT WAS, OH, GOD, WHAT A STORY?
HOW DO I DO THIS?
WHERE DO I GO NEXT?
IT WASN'T UNTIL THE FUNERAL ON
MONDAY AND I WAS STILL IN DALLAS
AND WITH THE NBC CREW I WENT UP
TO THE TOP OF THE GRASSY KNOLL
AND THERE WAS A SMALL LITTLE
GATHERING OF FLOWERS AND NOTES
AND THINGS WHERE IT HAPPENED,
SORT OF LIKE BEGINNINGS OF WHAT
BECAME A WORLDWIDE FORM OF MASS
GRIEVING.
AND WHILE WE WERE FILMING, AN
OLD MAN CAME ALONG AND HE SAT
DOWN NEAR WHERE I WAS ON A KIND
OF STONE BENCH AND HE TOOK OUT A
TRANSISTOR RADIO AND PUT IT DOWN
AND AT THAT PRECISE MOMENT THE
BLACK WATCH REGIMENT AND BAND
WERE PASSING A MICROPHONE IN THE
PARADE.
AND I SIMPLY BURST INTO TEARS.
JUST THE SOUND OF THE BAGPIPES
AND EVERYTHING-- MY CULTURAL
BACKGROUND.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE CANADIAN.
>> IT WAS SO STRANGE.
I HAD ONLY A FEW DAYS BEFORE IN
THE SOUTH LAWN OF THE WHITE
HOUSE WATCHED AS THE SAME BLACK
WATCH REGIMEN THEN PARADED UP
AND DOWN WHILE PRESIDENT AND
MRS. KENNEDY SAT ON THE SOUTH
PORTICO WITH THEIR CHILDREN ON
THEIR LAPS WATCHING THIS AND I
HAD TWO CHILDREN AT THAT TIME
EXACTLY THE SAME AGE, A GIRL AND
A BOY THE SAME AGE AS CAROLYN
AND JOHN-JOHN.
AND I DON'T KNOW WHETHER THAT
CONTRIBUTED BUT IT ALL JUST
FLOODED OUT OF ME.
>> IN OUR CASE AT THE
"TIMES-HERALD" EVERY ONE OF US
WORKED AROUND THE CLOCK FOR TWO,
THREE DAYS.
AND THEN WHEN THE FUNERAL THIS
WALKED DOWN PENNSYLVANIA AVENUE
AND ALL THAT AND SUDDENLY
EVERYBODY WAS JUST RUNNING AND
THEN SUDDENLY ABSOLUTELY SILENT.
AND WE ALL STARTED CRYING.
AND IT WAS JUST -- IT WAS
DISBELIEF WHAT I TOOK AWAY AND
HAVE TAKEN AWAY AND IT STILL
OVERRIDES EVERYTHING I HAVE DONE
IN JOURNALISM SINCE.
WHAT THE KENNEDY ASSASSINATION
DID FOR ME WAS FOREVER KEEP ME
AWARE OF THE FRAGILITY OF
EVERYTHING.
THAT ON ANY GIVEN MOMENT
SOMETHING COULD HAPPEN.
I MEAN, MY GOD!
IF THEY COULD SHOOT THE
PRESIDENT -- AND
>> AND THAT PRESIDENT.
>> THAT PRESIDENT.
JUST LIKE THAT ON A BEAUTIFUL
SUNSHINEY DAY, MY GOD, THREE
ROUNDS FIRED AT 15 SECONDS
CHANGED THE COURSE OF HISTORY.
THAT IF IT COULD HAPPEN ONCE IT
COULD HAPPEN AGAIN AND AGAIN AND
AGAIN.
AND WHEN I LATER BECAME CITY
EDITOR OF THAT SAME NEWSPAPER I
HAD A RULE THAT EVERY PHONE THAT
RANG IN THAT NEWSROOM GOT
ANSWERED BECAUSE YOU NEVER KNEW
WHO WAS ON THE OTHER LINE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU THINK
-- JUST TO WRAP THAT UP.
WHAT DO YOU THINK IS THE LONG --
THE ENDURING VIEW OF THE PEOPLE
OF DALLAS ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED?
>> WELL, AT FIRST THERE WAS
SHAME AND EMBARRASSMENT AND
GRIEF FOR WHAT HAD HAPPENED AND
THAT IT HAD HAPPENED IN THEIR
CITY AND ALL OF THAT.
BUT IN SOME WAYS IT WAS A
MARCHING-OFF SPOT, TOO, FOR A
TEST.
IN A LOT OF PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: SEVEN YEARS AFTER
THE ASSASSINATION CITY LEADERS
ASKED IF LEHRER WOULD WRITE AN
INSCRIPTION ON A KENNEDY
MEMORIAL IN DEALEY PLAZA ON
BEHALF OF THE PEOPLE OF DALLAS.
>> IT PROBABLY IS THE MOST
MEMORABLE LASTING WORDS I'VE
EVER WRITTEN IN MY LIFE OR EVER
WILL WRITE.
>> Woodruff: A HALF CENTURY
AFTER HIS DEATH, THE KENNEDY
MEMORIAL IN DALLAS CONTINUES TO
HONOR THE LIFE OF THE 35th
PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS ORDERED ALL
FLAGS FLOWN AT HALF-STAFF
TOMORROW IN HONOR OF PRESIDENT
KENNEDY.
ONLINE YOU CAN WATCH MY FULL
CONVERSATION WITH ROBIN AND JIM
AND YOU CAN READ A SERIES OF
ESSAYS ON KENNEDY AND THE LEGACY
HE LEFT BEHIND.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
SENATE DEMOCRATS PUSHED THROUGH
A RULES CHANGE MAKING IT EASIER
TO STOP FILIBUSTERS AGAINST MOST
PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEES.
IT WILL NOW TAKE 51 VOTES
INSTEAD OF 60.
AND AFGHAN PRESIDENT HAMID
KARZAI URGED TRIBAL ELDERS TO
SUPPORT A SECURITY DEAL THAT
ALLOWS THOUSANDS OF U.S. TROOPS
TO STAY ON.
HE SAID HE'D LEAVE IT TO HIS
SUCCESSOR TO SIGN THE PACT NEXT
YEAR.
ON THE NEWSHOUR, JAMES DOBBINS,
A SPECIAL REPRESENTIVE TO
AFGHANISTAN, SAID SPECIALS ARE
URGING KARZAI TO RECONSIDER.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, LEIGH-ANN
ANDERSON'S FOURTH-GRADE
SCIENCE CLASS TRADES IN
TEXTBOOKS FOR HANDS-ON
EXPERIMENTS.
SHE CALLS IT "LAB BEFORE BLAB,"
AND IT'S WORKING.
SEE HOW ON OUR "SCIENCE" PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON FRIDAY, PAUL SOLMAN REPORTS
ON WALL STREET'S RECORD BREAKING
WEEK.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW WITH MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS, AMONG OTHERS.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.